[Music] discretion a little music for the Dawn brers and the root
[Music] Cutters D bringer root
cutter new singer Athena lover singing with The Muse dancing one
two she Whispers little thing in the wind to you hold my heart so dear a CA
bellisima do you like the hash I got the creeper reer we eat spaghetti fail
assassin with the fruit and veggies out the corner copia here have a little
taste sipping wine iron flavor I got the bag of amethyst don't bring her root
cutter new singer Athena
got the laender by the box full Bobo riger Tony coming through high off the
contact it sounds nice fruits of Labor All Night the moon rise Dragon Queen
Taking Flight I sping away from the tree line This bubble make you feel fine
House of Frankenstein Wolf Man CH time Root cutter don't bringer Phoenix Rising
that's how the devil rid don't bringer BR
cutter new singer
aena welcome back to Lady Babylon this is Al and youu tonight and I'm going to
give you a plenty of time with your instructor tonight I'm going to uh bring
him on in a minute but what I want to do is warm up and I want to say thank you for your continued attention to ancient
Greek it's very important very important um eye opening Enlightenment stuff and
tonight we're going to do that but in order to get there we've got to start
somewhere that you're not going to want to be where are we going we're going to
the Back Alley we're going to that place where people get
seduced they get seduced I want you satanic
congregation to be impervious to the seduction of the fairy
tale I want you to be so rooted and reason people have to give you a coat
like a scientist and call you Melvin listen to me very carefully
tonight we're going to look at an example of how you can be taken into the
back alley um it's very easy and uh let's all stay together come on let's
don't get anybody get lost out there this is a scary scary place all right
I'm gonna hit you with the clip first and I want you to look at this clip and I want you as classical philologists to
realize your place is a place of examining evidence you are
investigators you examine evidence none of us care about
arguments arguments are sold and bought evidence is what will take us to
the history so I want you to be listening for that go ahead what did the Greeks want to do
they want to destroy Judaism so that's why I say that when you think of Greek don't think of think
think of it as German the reason why you would bristle the idea that a holy book would be written in
German I don't need to tell you what happened 85 years ago so Greek wasn't
just another language it was the enemy language it was the language represent everything that was vile everything that
was ungodly moreover bear in mind people may say well the writers of the New
Testament they just were Greek speakers Christians insist that the authors of the
gospels and the letters the Epistles found in the Christian Canon were
divinely inspired they're not just the Recollections of evangelists no they
were divinely inspired by the Holy Spirit by the Holy Ghost really that
means that means god inspired these people to write in Greek did the Holy
Spirit forget Hebrew and Aramaic and this a massive problem for the church
that's why there are books out that when God began to speak Greek like they have
to explain this away it's a very big problem did the Holy Spirit
speak Hebrew and Aramaic this is the difficulty do you
hear how we're not looking at evidence right we're scientists and we need to stand back we need in order to
understand history we have to look at all the data that we've been given that's the that's history and you and I
are philologists are dat is all that Greek now the
impression this is the this is the very um this is the
stealth of the whole um creation of the fairy tale people are
speaking Hebrew and Aramaic fantastic fantastic I want you to keep
that in mind because I'm going to show you something um we know that by this
time there was no he spoken Hebrew nope and I'll show you that in a second so um
the Greek that is in Antiquity that is the language of literature the Romans
You' be proud of this the Romans used to say um uh the Greeks yeah although they
were conquered by us they conquered us with that gorgeous
gorgeous hot language it's right it's right it's
right um so let's look for the data like in Hebrew ancient Hebrew there are only
8,000 unique words in ancient Greek somewhere around 1.5 million why the
difference right hit um chewy hit us another star system please yes it's
written in a language that's not just not Jewish not Hebrew not Aramaic it's written in the enemy language it's
written in the ungodly language the language of helenismo and most importantly mostos
Germain for us because you're a child of Hashem you want to do the right thing
like why is there these Greek ideas the idea of a a demiurge that
Satan is a lord of this world in 2 Corinthians 4:4 it's it's the ideas that
are conveyed in Christianity that are Greek rather than Hebrew thank you so
much for your thoughtful question if you enjoy this program please like And
[Music]
subscribe okay did you get the pitch there did did you get the pitch there anybody who wants to purchase or
merchandise feel free now the problem is the things that we're not seeing is the
very obvious I want you to be on alert I want you to be on alert whenever someone
starts talking in generalities generalities don't stand up
to even a decade of antiquity you cannot say
these people do that at the same time as those people do that this is such a mixture of
Mediterranean and cultures from Asia Minor um long long long histories
languages Galore right it's we're flooded with data so we don't need to be
making generalities be careful when somebody says Bible times realize oh in
Bible times something happen that is scientifically and Ling linguistically
absurd it's absurd at its best at its worst it's intentionally
deceptive so but it's something that monism does Scholars hate this and that's why
classes don't treat the Bible because they know these are the guardians of the
fairy tale of the fairy tale are you ready for this I just want to hit you
with a piece of um okay get ready to reset yourself and you're thinking are you
ready let's just look at the facts we're talking about Hebrew in the first
century let's see let's see what we've got here give me the first facts watch
this people you can find this on you can find this on any old encyclopedia right what is Hebrew it's
closely related to Phoenician and moabit we don't have any more that one with with which it is often placed by scholar
in a Canaanite subgroup spoken in ancient times in Palestine now wait a
minute did you hear it star to creep in that was the creeper in ancient times what are you
talking about there's 3,000 years of time all over the the Western World what
are you talking about ancient times he um what happened um spoken in ancient
times in Palestine Hebrew was supplanted uhoh what are they recognizing here
they're recognizing that Hebrew died Hebrew was a small tribal language that
died and by the time it got to the level of being able to communicate itself Greek came along and
went squash just like she did many many many other
languages many other languages the real irony is that the person that was just
speaking to you about Hebrew and about evil Greek their
ancestors were Greek speakers that's the irony of the
history it died out Watch What Happens people Hebrew was supplanted by and they
propose Aramaic possibly funny aren't they they're funny
was there any Aramaic no what's going on we're trying to explain
the facts that we've got and the monest have to stick to a narrative they have
to if the if the Old Testament is not Hebrew everyone's in big trouble and God
has a birthday God has a birthday hit it Chey
Yahoo Yahoo when's your birthday everybody happy birthday to
Yahoo happy birthday to
Yahoo happy birthday Elohim hashm
jeh it was in the thir Century thank you Ault examiner and
chewy for bringing us that g Watch What Happens people um this is in the 3
Century notice that they say it's in the 3 Century right that's when we know it's
it's gone it was revived look what they say the language was lurgical how many times have I told
you that how many times have I told you that we are talking about a language that was dead do you know who's talking
about that language that was dead people talking in Greek
now granted at this time at this time um the world is being
swamped swamped by the language but something is happening to
Mother Greek too yeah she is aging she's aging and that should not be
happening we have things creeping into the language and ultimately we get this
thing called coinet it's a coin a from the attic dialect and it is
corrupted it's corrupted it's being dumbed down it's
commonality is having to pay for absorbing people who have not worked
with Greek who were not born with Greek yeah all sorts of cultures all all
over the Mediterranean they're having to absorb this you see when you learn history you learn dates and you learn
people's names and that garbage is useless it takes away from the focus of
the nature that the Greeks were so focused on the nature of
language the nature of language okay give me the next one the uh give me the
next one yeah we're talking about natural beauty here watch this people here's another little ENT look at this
classical Hebrew we've got the Hebrew language is divided into four major periods now watch this pay attention
biblical or classical Hebrew what is wrong with the commas this person does not understand commas until about the 3
Century BC now they're telling you Biblical Hebrew is that which goes up to the 3 Century BC but wait a minute how
many biblical texts do we have from this period do we have the letters of Isaiah
no do we have the Genesis of Moses no do
we have anything no you mean we have nothing of biblically
zero do you know why this article says that Biblical Hebrew Hebrew
exists without having any any documents written in that language imagine if I
were to say you know what in my backyard some people spoke a language and it was
called blah and blah was so expressive um show us some
blah uh I got no blah fill in the blank people this is
not science right you cannot say the period
when this language was spoken if there are no remains of the
language zero zip NADA now watch what watch what they say
here in that line um until about the third Century in which most of the Hebrew Bible is
written and really it's written in this period G give me some of it oh it's you
don't have any of it that right there that you just saw that you just read we just read together
that is an illusion that's an illusion we are song
and dancers do you know what we are we are singers and dancers and we are
singing and dancing here um let's keep going um now what comes after it after
it comes mishnaic or rinic Hebrew and you say aha there's the language I've
got the language right there this man alond is a fool look they're speaking
Hebrew written about 200 CE what what this form of Hebrew look
what's in the parenthesis right when somebody takes you into the back alley
and they start saying funny things look for what's in the parentheses what's in the parenthesis here somebody read it
this form of Hebrew was never used among the people as a spoken language what are
these people speaking Greek why did Jesus what did Jesus speak
Greek nobody spoke Hebrew it had been dead for years it did not have the
stamina God's tongue took a dive yes Watch What Happens here
people so from about the sixth to the 13th century an OD doin when many words
were being bur uh look what are they doing borrowing now we're going to try to bring it back we got to revive this
corpse and what are we going to do naturally we're just going to use the words that we're speaking natively Greek
Spanish Arabic I don't know if these are the languages of the ungodly I don't know but scientific do
you hear how that's an argument you don't want to be bathed in arguments you
want the evidence the science anybody here this is a freaking Temple to
reason the Muse my friend is the result
of of a process of creation everything around you is that
nature isn't that fundamentally kind of mind altering if
you can't follow anything but science wow think about
that you could almost never you could you could almost never be let astray no
no facts won't Lead You astray look at the evidence go to the next one one one
more of these and then I'm going to call on the drill instructor um lots of good news from him the Hebrew of the Bible
exhibits little dialectical variety now this one's important it
seems like it's a side note so all of these books that are in the Bible you
mean they don't have any dialectical differences period as if the same person
wrote them yeah as if one person or one group
of people wrote this work all these different books The Books of Moses the prophets the Psalms they're all written
by the same people by one group at one time in the
third Century they left their F fingerprints all over it and what
language did they have to use they had to use Greek they had to use Greek because
that's all they had you can not write a work if if you're not native if you
don't have that language inside and out of you yeah you can't use the idiom it's
the idiom the idiom stains you watch I'm going to show you a little idiom here in a second give me the next comment this
is fantastic people none of us is going to be deceived here anymore none no back
alleys we will stay tell me teacher we will stay the the straight and narrow
watch this Biblical Hebrew in the in its widest sense Biblical Hebrew refers to the spoken language of ancient Israel
flourishing between 1,000 BC that's a nice that's a right cap do we have a document from of course we don't right
1,00 BC to 400 CE it comprises several evolving and
overlapping dialects look it's it's almost like they don't have a there's no scientific standards here for their
definitions the phases of classical Hebrew are often named after important literary works really
really like the mishnaic Hebrew right a non-spoken
language fantastic give me the next one what is going on with this israelian
Hebrew is a proposed wait is a proposed as soon as you hear proposed that trench
code is coming off yeah the look you can expect it now you're in
trouble don't be thinking where's Mom and Dad no you're done
for a a proposed Northern dialect of Biblical Hebrew believed well at least
they're admitting that this is not a matter of science but a matter of Faith at least they're admitting that
believed to have existed in all erors of the language in some cases competing
with that look at how look at how incred L contorted and you know detailed is
their belief right the B seriously is this the
best your Scholars can do yes yes one for the scholars one for the scholars
all you language Scholars you lazy
people shame on you shame on you for abandoning the art go to the next one
shy quickly quickly I want to bring the sergeant and here we go it one more well
look at this look at this is Israeli and Hebrew IH is a northern dialect now this
one didn't say that they don't have any of this but this fish doesn't exist this
is a hypothesized fish have you seen it have you drawn it out do you know where it has it's young what does
it do what environment no none of that this is an imaginary fish
this is an imaginary fish blow it up cheery blow it up um proposed well there
finally they it proposed as an explanation for the various irregular
linguistic features of the Matic text now what are they talking about when you read the Bible you are reading an
English translation or a Spanish translation or something you're reading a
translation of the Matic text and when is the azaric Hebrew text when is it
invented it is invented in 1000 on OD Domin you mean we're not even a thousand
we're a thousand years off the mark yes you meant to land in the Sea of Tranquility you landed on
Mercury oh my God my God biblical
Scholars what is wrong with you watch what happens it competes with the alternative Oh look The Irregular engl
linguistic features so we have the mastic text but it's
irregular why do you think they have problems you don't hear classus is
talking about you know what Homer that guy's IR regular no no no no no no don't
play games what's happening with your text people it's falling apart it
complete competes with the alternative explanation that such features are arism
now look what they did did they so want to include something that sounds legitimate they're going to pull in
Aramaic Aramaic is that substitute for reality the reality that we need to
understand is this stuff didn't exist in Antiquity do you know what was there
Greek and she was eating everybody up the good news is that after Greek met
its decline in into the influences of the first in centuries BC and
AD after she started to meet her kin a group of very enthusiastic people you
could call them I don't know a satanic congregation they came up they came up
with a method they said we're going to re-inject the glory that was Athens do you remember all the evil things that
helenismo see do you remember the real evil thing
that [Music]
helenismo democracy that comes through a
language and that language has the capacity to make you
aware yeah do you know the science that the Greek teaches that science can put
anybody anybody who's trying to take you into a back alley put it to shame put some to shame Lady Justice is right
there with her let's go to the next one watch this people and then I'm I'm just
wait I'm gonna call on the drill instruct give me another 10 minutes and I'm gon call on you
di this is a great sentence lifted from Deuteronomy 7
Deuteronomy 72 KT
oh now watch this on the second line do you hear
that do you see what they're doing now watch he's gonna do it again [Music]
de do you hear what's going on it's something helenistic grace particularly
love to do they love to take a verb because they're Smarties right they've learned how the language Works they've
learned the Mastery of how that causes you to grow in your frin in that place
that you perceive causes you to grow and you know they've gotten clever and they'll here's
what we're going to do we're going to take a verb the action word and we're going to take a noun the person place or
thing and we're going to take those two things we're going to make one word the verb and it's going to have the this
root and then we're going to take the same route and we're going to have the noun use the noun from that
root right it's a little bit of repetition it breaks up and makes them remember this
is musical right lots of lots of non-musical languages out there lots of
them like our stupid anglosaxon right speaking of Anglo-Saxons check
out old boy who is doing an outstanding service by running around tracking down
tracking down the purple in his backyard and um going to some of these
places and talking talk he was talking to someone I'll give you a little bit ofe preview I don't think he'd mind um
Al Boy going to be going to be looking at more purple that they're still finding oh God oh God it's wonderful
people who said the apocalypse who was that person who said this was going to be
impossible to you naysayers let's go back to that verse let's go back to that
verse what does this verse say um it brings up something um that I wanted to show you the style the style of this
line the these lines um is Greek it's not only colloquial um it's scient it's
excuse me it's stylistically Greek does is the Hebrew able to keep
this up no of course not because the Hebrew is a translation of this how are
they supposed to invent words oh God if you've only got 8,000 you've got to
start inventing right it's the way it is we do the same thing in English right our
Anglo-Saxon ancestors they the same thing you borrow remember the Hebrew that we're talking about in the Middle
Ages that they're trying to revive this dead corpse what are they doing they're taking Greek they're taking Spanish
they're pulling it all in they're taking German right right and by the way by the way no
you know what let's stay above The Fray people let's keep ourselves let's keep ourselves in the dignified Zone I think
we'd all like that I think we'd all like that um give me the next one we're going to fly
through a couple of these Bo I just wanted you to see yeah here's that AA nmos and I want you to see um we've got
a little bit of creepage in our definition because remember the editors there's a whole bunch of editors to the
Oxford um Greek Lexicon and they will group they will do
something that you saw that guest or guest speaker today that you saw him
doing um that there is a what they do is they say look there are there are monists and then there is the culture in
which monists live and the monism creates this barrier where you
don't know what your neighbor is doing you don't speak his language you don't use his toothpaste you don't do anything like that right um that never exists
it's an impossibility it's like living in a bubble nobody lives in a bubble you're stained with everything around
you everything around you and so it's creeping in in section A with the word extermination right what is afano in
Greek it means to destroy to obliterate to um wipe to take away
entirely right show me the verb chewy it's next when you think wait a minute isn't that the same thing as
extermination no it's not watch to do away with to remove right something that
is concealed something that is concealed right to secret away or steal something
to obscure do you hear where aano is going right has to do with whether or
not you can see it it's a the alpha privative plus F the base that means to
appear so it's not appearing fantastic give me the next one
how does this stuff get translated on the Hebrew side um yeah de
go to the this one how does this stuff get translated on the no go down here on
the Hebrew side let's just jump to it haram to ban to devote to
exterminate yeah what is the concept here do you want to know what is
uniquely Hebrew if you do it's really you know it's fascinating because they left us to
septu and then attempted to translate it um it's very interesting that you can pick
out you can filter out the cultural influences from the Hebrew this word
haram is very specific in context all the time and it means to take a group of
people and wipe them out to take a group of people and
dedicate them to your god of death wait a minute what check this out check
this out I know the we don't get the concept in Greek we're trying to creep
off anisus toward it but we can't quite get there right because that evil
language of helenismo language of
helenismo bro lots of different people there are no
races there's only two types of people in the world say the Greeks right which
Greeks the Athenians do you know what they said when the language was that it's peaked you know what they said it's
not about it's not about races it's about your language there are those of us who know
mother Greek and those of us who don't and those who don't speak
like no music in them what soever you want to be one of those people you want
to be one of those Anglo-Saxons you want to be one of those osin you want to be a Roman with your
Latin all right let's go next one down I think it's time for me to call in call
in the sergeant um yeah yeah yeah um because what do we do oh I just wanted
to see um we've got extremities of age here and we're always talking about about that naked kid with Jesus he was a
anise ghost well we've got The Young and the old we've got the extremes who are
the people that we kill who are the people that we perform complete and
total genocide upon in Antiquity who are these
people that we do this to those who are outside of the monest
box right and who do we kill the Young from the youngest to the
oldest men and women and and what else
even their cattle all right their calves those
animals they use that come under the Yoke you know what I'm talking about
those Works those work animals kill them all what are you going to kill him with
you're going to kill him with an edge of the edge of the sword what about the gold
the gold you dedicate to the service of God this
concept is not helenistic it is
not why because mother Greek Embraces
everyone yeah they were giving themselves over people were giving
themselves over fantastic amazing um let me call
call in I think that's it is we got one more one more chewy and then we're going to bring in the drill sergeant people
and I'll he will answer all of your questions and guide you take you exactly
where you need to be please listen to him at that time we will look at all uh we took all the towns completely oh I
think this is Jesus speaking no no not the one you're thinking of but the one you call what do you call Jesus Oh
Joshua yeah that's right um this the you know men women children nothing give me
the next one nothing left let them you know we kill them all right that's the
way go um look at the uh this is the concept right this is the nonh
helenistic concept when you're taking that that that filter and you're shaking
out the Rocks you know what I mean all the dust is following to the falling down there on the bottom and all you got
left are these bigger rocks on the top this is what you shake out okay now
check out the bottom of this this is the concept in Hebrew of
genocide look at the bottom comment pull up the bottom pull up the bottom comment again this is ancient um the stuff that
we think was at a certain time but we don't have any of it surviving so let's
see what here we go people read this what is this thing thing hostile to
theocracy and therefore to be either destroyed or in the case of certain
objects I.E or AG silver and gold vessels of brass and iron there's no
reason to destroy that s set apart to Sacred uses that's what we need to do
this is part of a word this is part of a word it's an
expression Of Human Action it's an expression Of Human
Action the language carries this action and it
carries it via the speaker beliefs did you see tonight all the
beliefs it's we believe it was here we believe it was here it's proposed that it's here it's proposed that it's there
we don't have any that survives what do we have that survives we have a [__] ton of Greek uhhuh let's see let's go ahead
and leave that up for a minute but give me um you know what um I'm going to go
grab the sergeant and what I want you to do is sing Happy Birthday to Jehovah one
more time Yahoo Yahoo when's your birthday everybody happy birthday to
Yahoo happy birthday to Yahoo
no happy birthday Elohim hashm
jeh it was in the thir
Century fantastic I'm glad you got that introduction now shut up and listen to
me I've been watching your comments I know what you're doing and I admire the fact that there are those of you who are
taking initiative doing what you need to do get done I'm going to show you tonight as we finish unit one I'm going
to show you tonight where you should be and what you should be doing all you have to do is listen to me I know people
are writing and saying you know what I got a terrible grade when I was in when
I was in high school Latin that's because your Latin teacher sucked yeah that's why your Latin
teacher was not a true representative ative of the guild uhuh fantastic if
they drove you away they probably drove everyone away yeah yeah I'm here to give you the
dope to keep you moving you have got to run these obstacle
courses what are we doing in unit one we are getting you to start
thinking in Greek letters to start thinking in Greek
letters that's all we're doing we're showing you what is a verb a noun and an
adjective basic words basic words don't worry those are all you know we're going
to give them to you the ones that you need to know we'll give them to you don't worry what am I going to do tonight I'm GNA take you on that
obstacle course I want you to run it with me okay there are those of you who know you can make it through here and
there are those of you who are afraid I will make you
succeed I will make you succeed so shut up and listen to me Chewy give me the
first slide tonight boom we're going to do some words together people I'm G to
spell this for you this first one let's just spell This Together Alpha Gamma
Omron row Alpha oh isn't that nice now what have I got here I'm going to tell
you this once you will never make a mistake again this is a noun this is a
noun do you know how I knew that so quickly because look at the tail end of the entry it's got an ADA there with
rough breathing over it a hey that's a definite article nouns get definite
articles what is a definite article it's our word
theth it's a little bit more sophisticated than ourth and a or an
right it's a little more sophisticated you'll get to you'll get to enjoy the definite article but that's
how I know it's a noun this is a noun what is an aor
aor that first word that you see that's the nominative case remember I told you
to memorize nominative genitive dative accusative those four cases always in that order nominative genitive dative
accusative what is this the first one is the nominative the second one is the
genitive aoras aoras good notice over the alpha please
is a smooth breathing it looks like an apostrophe you're not going to call that
an apostrophe you're going to call it a smooth breathing in our new language that will open your
brain it's a smooth breathing what is a smooth breathing has no h sound rough
breathing the other way open parenthesis that has an H sound accompanying with
this this is smooth breathing no Hound s good aora auras hey what is that it's a
Marketplace it's a place for you to go and exchange and to interact oh God and people say it's like
a grocery store no it's not you can go see doctors you can do all sorts of stuff you can meet there I'll meet you
in the marketplace oh let's get some fruit give me the next one watch this people I want
you to spell these words out this is your vocabulary look at it and say Alpha Delta Epsilon
Lambda F Omron Sigma I'm going to do it again
Alpha Delta Epsilon Lambda Fe Omron sigma look
at that Sigma on the end that's the terminal Sigma it's the one that looks like the
snake otherwise it's a little it's an Omron with a little tail on the top part
of it looking to the east fantastic what's its genitive form
ad Del Fu now what's going on look at that those last two vowels are Omron
oilon and those two vowels are what you call a diff thong people have said I saw
you I saw you writing about what's a diff thong what's a diff thong it's just two vows stuck together and it comes
together to make a different sound Omron a oilon o what happens when you bring ow
together you get ooh ah here a little bit of that diagma
little bit of that Dima stuck in that oops W that's the W sound o nice nice and it's definite article is
H that looks different from hey yes because hey is feminine H is
masculine to is neuter H he to all words
for the that's called the definite article and you will know a nouns
gender because of its definite article oh God now are there exceptions that of
course there are sometimes H sometimes things are not so obvious but
99.9999% of the time I want you to hold this notion the definite article shows
you the gender of the noun you want to see the gender of a n come here now come
here now let me see that gender let me see oh this one is neuter how do you tell that you tell it
from the definite article that's what that tale is giving you there pay attention to it give me the next one
boom boom anthropos anthropo you know this thing has got a
masculine definite article on it what is an anthropos it's a person don't say man
I know your book translates it that way it's not it's a general person the
anthropology is the studying the people yes gorgeous one thing I want you to
notice what this word is doing it's now there's something going on here that you can't hear there's something going on
and I love your frightened frightened little Minds I love them I love them oh
God God it's like okay let's not go there anthropos
look where the accent is it's over Alpha don't be afraid people for th for those
of you who are not afraid um something's wrong with you you should be right but for those of you who
are afraid everybody everybody don't worry the drill Sergeant's yelling at
everyone right just follow my instructions look at the accent on this thing it's over the alpha but what
happens on the genitive the accent jumps to the Omega it goes from anthropos to
onu and why do we do that because the ending of the word has a diff thong diff thongs are long they're
long and what happens what do you mean long extra time for you it's extra time
and when you put that much time into something it's going to drag that accent toward it it's like
gravity this is all musical it's all musical right Greek now there's a lot of
classical Scholars out there and you can walk up to one and um you know get their
attention slap them you know shake them do hey classical philologist tell me
something right tell me something um was ancient Greek Musical and they will have to say
Yes um unfortunately we're not going to be able to Plum the depths of of that
musicality this is something you'll develop you'll develop a little bit of
appreciation but to the level that the Greeks had it going it's the reason they could say there's two types of people in
were those who speak Greek and those who don't right the division of the Jew and
the Gentile in the sep is a reflection of this very
idea you say I thought the ungod ly helenistic Greek I thought it was you
know something came later that no no no do you see why you have to fabricate
history by assuming the langu there was a language back then it was called ancient Hebrew do you see why you have
to fabricate that history if you're a theologian or a monest because the authority is in the
language and if you don't have a language you don't have authority yeah yeah it's an uh it's it's
an attempt it's an attempt to adapt good let's go to the next one give me another
word chewy give me another word boom watch this bi on biu look read these
read these look at that accent biblion I just want you to tr uh attempt the accent Now Beta Yoda
beta Lambda Yoda Omron new spells biblion and what is bib Leon you're G to
say book no it's a scroll that's okay that's
okay if you want to translate this book I'll give you that one notice that this one is neuter neuter look at the T on
the end of it that means it's neuter neuter okay look none of this are you
learning because you're a smarty this is just physics this is
elements that we're dealing with that's it it's just physics there's no um
reasoning that you're going to be um needing put away your calculators people
are shocked when I say that but when they come into Greek I tell them you're going to have a problem
because your brain thinks it's intelligent right you know so does mine
I suffer from the same from the same Humanity right the Greek will teach you
that you are not was that somebody at the at the Port hang on give me a second give me a
second is
it I told you to clamp down those doors right they're gonna Stormtroopers are
going to keep doing that um chewy we got to watch that um give me the next one
Boom D now what do you know right away about
it you saw the to you know this this is a neuter fantastic it's a neuter noun
what does this one mean doron aoron is a gift aoron is a gift give me the next
one we're going to fly through these and then I want to give you a couple of reviews people here's another type of
word let's let's just appreciate this little type of word it's called a preposition prepos position it's
prepositioned yeah it's going to come before a noun and it's going to tell you
I can either go into this noun I can come out of this noun or I can be in
this noun Ace into e or X Out of and in
in prepositions are just positional words they're just positional
words right under over within right oh yes prepositions
prepositions they're going to come before the noun excellent that they
govern go ahead give me the next one gorgeous look at this gorgeous eron eru
right what is that it's a work what do you talk about when you you mention ergonomics right eron means a work a
work right now some of these Concepts that I'm giving you as soon as they're like seeds and we put them in your brain
and they blow up as soon as you start seeing this thing used oh God you're
going to start getting excited and things are going to happen you're gonna have certain feelings certain chemistry
going to be going on and it makes me want to say stop and watch what's happening to
yourself the Greeks um during the first century um to
the about second anod Domin um first BC they're very fond of this concept think
about this think about this intellectually the contrast
between logos and eron what is
logos logos is Reckoning what is
Aron doing what is the difference between
Reckoning and doing is there some sort of
magic physics going on between Reckoning or reasoning and
making acting is there a difference between
action and being linguistically the
garans are quick to point out that this is just the difference between a verb
and a noun yeah yeah yeah what does the verb
do it can do two things right it can be or it can do can be or it can do
eron logos eron logos what is wrapped up
in the verb eron and logos what is your
noun your noun is just those things that are affected by the Aron or the
logos okay trust me by the time you're done when somebody says in the beginning
was the word your mind will go back to the native of the time that they wrote
it this is the power of the words that they have for you you're sitting there do you want this capacity do you want
this capacity to do this then do exactly exactly what I say hit me hit me with
the next one um look what I wait a minute there's two definite articles here you're gonna say ha or hey why
would that be because you can have a Theos that's a ha or a hey and the thing
they're not telling you because this is an introductory intensive course it's
introductory you'll find out when you get in the bush this is just to train you so you can go out into the bush and
when you're out there in the bush you're going to find that not everything holds
together you we're going to study 2,000 years of Greek and things
change and you got to know in early Greek an archaic homeric Greek and I'm
not talking about a proposed language because we have it it survives because
it dominates the mind the bakic Empire The Mind was
everything and there was no language not even Latin could stand it right the
Romans walking around saying we conquered them and they came back with that language and they conquered
us power of Greek do you know what you do to your enemies when all you've got
is arguments you demonize them there is a
movement of people who will meet the exception of the science and they will
demonize it happens all the time it's the natural kinetics of the
universe you know what I'm saying you're sitting there and you know what I'm saying did my tiny little brain did my
tiny Pete oh God it's so average my brain is so average was it able to get
to these places without mother Greek uh-uh right Special Operations
soldiers right they have it inside them those guys they're instructors they just
bring it out they just bring it out know yourself you know who knows you know who
knows who they are yeah somebody who's brought it out and the dope that I
giving you will cause you to bring it out love it do you need to be smart if
if you did I wouldn't be here okay I'm just telling you that in all
honesty yeah fantastic it's humbling working with music is humbling because
people want to give you credit and they want to tell you oh my God this is jamus this I this thing what are you saying
I'm all I'm giving you are her songs that's all I'm just giving you her
songs love it go to the next one when you get oh what is that chewy oh that is
gorgeous a gorgeous gorgeous look at the firl and this gorgeous let's go to the
next one nice art chewy beautiful job tell that AI the services slave away
Theos the H or hey can be can be masculine or feminine you mean um wait a
minute wait a minute this language this evil language of the Greek is able to
Envision female Divinity now I know all the monis just laughed I know they just
laugh the idea of a female Divinity right because monism is
atheism is atheism DK is a woman and if you haven't
learned that DK is a woman that Justice is a woman maybe Julian was right maybe the
emperor Julian was right the monest will destroy your very
language set up a fairy tale a fairy tale why did you see the
merch it's all about merch your greed stains your soul with the stench of Ruin
do you know who said that the furies the Greek Furies speaking helenistic Greek
they said hey you your greed stains your soul to stench of
Ruin what are we want people we're not here because we want the fairy tale
we're here because we want the reasoned logos we're here because we want
reality Now give me the next one Faith do you know what faith is good for
deception faith is good for deception faith says don't believe what you're seeing
with your senses what you're perceiving don't trust your frin do you know
everything that ancient Greek is based upon everything the whole thing is a
foundation it's got one foundation and that Foundation is use your
mind use it the
serpent was the wisest of all
creatures okay here's three more nouns right what am I doing people I'm getting
you used to the lettering make love to this tech tech right Tech it's skill it's
skill these are all feminine by the way H H that's the countryside let's go out
to the H and we can energize our uh what is it called that thing inside of you I
don't know is it here is it here it's kind of here mhm right don't think I
don't know maybe too much up there see Hey Soul where is your soul it's in your
thumos it's in your thumos how do you know when you're dead you breathe out
your soul and if you are over the person
dying you can breathe it in you can breathe it in isn't that a gorgeous
thought thought isn't that a gorgeous thought do you know who fell in love
with your soul P I'll give you a hint he's a handsome
devil and he's got wings and a bow and he's got
arrows and he shoots those into
P what I am telling you is a mystery it's the mystery of the on bringer it's
the mystery of AOS AOS now if you're an
atheist and you don't worship AOS I am sorry for your spouse I am
sorry um ladies of frustration please hang in there hang in there salvation is
coming let's go let's go to the next one what what else do we have give it to
them they they've got to love this stuff give it give it to them I'm going to give it it's going to be right down the shoot give it to me next one next one
boom um couple of verbs couple of verbs remember this chapter we're focusing
really on nouns right we're going to hit verbs next two unit because verbs are
the big machines they're the big machines of the language so for right now we're hitting you with the verbs uh
I mean with the nouns we're going to hit you with adjectives as well don't worry don't worry we'll get there um here are
two verbs P pwe look what how I'm pronouncing it pwe you hear my Dima coming out of the
Upsilon by way it means to teach please somebody look at the root
Pi P Alpha eota Delta by the way somebody asked a question I saw this and
it corresponded somewhere what's another primer that I should get if you get another primer get
out do not get any other tool stay on this
course I can promise you I can promise you all they do and I say that seriously
all that does um is cause confusion yeah I have to undo for example what books
like uh I've got one right here um reading coin Greek that thing is so bad
it is so bad if somebody's been in that text I have to undo the damage
that was done to them granted they're always thankful and it's usually seminarians they're always thankful but
it's a it's a damaging process people um I want you to stick with our text please
stick with our intensive Greek by Hansen and Quinn here give me that chewy stick
with our intensive Greek our intensive course you got it people you got it and
people please do not do not buy the Kim local Muse um uh somebody sent me an email
it's $2,000 I have not made anything from
that and I will not make anything from that I won't right all you're doing is you are
wasting your resources and I don't want to take away food from your family
right get clever find it there are ways there are
ways if that's and that's fantastic if you do right um find it you'll know how
to find it my God man hoist a flag with skull and bones on that thing and find
it find it you mean you're undercutting yourself I can't tell you how many
people don't understand your greed stains your soul with the stench of Ruin
have you ever seen me advertise anything do you see a poster of my book do you
see it you don't and you never will and
why is that why is that because the devil told me you be one of those back
alleys you be one of those back alley blanks I can't say it on YouTube and you know what I'm going to
do to you and then he went through a list of things a litany a litany most of them had to do
with parts of me that I don't want to expose
money greed your greed says that winged gorgeous devil your greed stains your
soul with the stench of Ruin do you know where now remember this is a great concept and I want you to be absorbing
these great Concepts Aeros is a purifier do you know what you cannot do
you cannot offer a lover cash and buy their love love you
can't do it the one who is in love will cross oceans will suffer
disease will do everything in the world for that
love that's Aros you can't buy Aeros right you can't buy Aeros do you
know what is not classical yeah you know what is not classical
greed it's constantly constantly when Jesus came along and he said it was the
root of all evil he said the love that that desire for profit in Greek the word
is the desire for profit it's not you it's translated the love of money it's
not it's the drive for profit for making profit making over what you need to
survive is called
greed and what happens The Muse doesn't like greed hates
greed evaporates in the presence of greed it's a part of The Pact with the
devil people we need this esoteric knowledge and in order to acquire it you
got to purge your greed Purge your greed boom that is one of the evil ideas of
Hellenism that is one of the ideas it's not the idea of annihilation and
extermination it is the idea that greed is a destroyer of
democracy isn't that gorgeous you want to rule yourselves get rid of your
greed love it love it so much yeah throw your Mone like that throw your money in
there Ryan see what I mean Jesus Oh Soul sucker
now come on come on in all fairness soul
sucking has gotten a black eyy yeah definitely definitely it's definitely
gotten a black eye um Carl Marx spoke a no stop it purple stop it I'm glad you
brought up this point Karl Marx did not speak ancient Greek Carl Mark was a
classicist he studied and translated ancient Greek
yeah that's what we have to do we're not here to speak ancient Greek because when you say he spoke ancient Greek what
you're doing is you're making ancient Greek a modern Greek you are making it a
language that is a spoken language you're making it an active process and
that is not how you learn a language that is no longer an active
language you have to draw that distinction you don't go in learning to speak it you go in learning to translate
it your mind crawls into bed with these gorgeous Concepts now purple I know where you were going Carl marks what's
that way I don't know that what is that does anybody know what that means does I don't know what that
means yeah I'm French
I'm very good that's okay look at this by the way uh good good the French oh
God oh God thank you for joining us your
unique courage your old Celtic
courage yeah love it and by the way total devotees of AOS total Kudos kudos
to all the French Kudos you know what I was in I was just south of Dijon and
French purple will be able to tell you oh God he's in that gorgeous country of the vine right who do you think bakus
passed on all of his knowledge to it's buried in the French Countryside in
those Vines those California Vines have nothing on those French Vines I stood
with a Frenchman his wine he was he was dressed in his got his big boots on um
he's dressed with overalls he's working he's doing his his Vineyard in and he
says Hey try this try this lovely and it was like metallic mushroom dirt it felt
like I was being energized by some kind of M maternal maternal sauce of the
cosmos oh God no don't underestimate the classical wisdom that
lies buried in French cult culture it's gorgeous absolutely
gorgeous makes me envious thank you purple good comment go
to the go to the next one I want to keep us on task here tonight watch people here's a couple of sentences now we've
learned nouns and I threw up a couple of verbs there to you now we're just going to put it together and I want to show
you how to do this the first word ha there's your definite article the' hos
that's our word Homer H homos Homer Homer what jump all the way to the end
there's the verb P Homer teaches ton anthrop the
man Homer teaches the person look at me I did it oh you're not supposed to do
that you love it you love it Homer teaches the person
watch now how do I know this isn't the person teaches Homer because Homer is in the nominative case with that ending o
it's a nominative case he's got to be the subject ton anthron is in the accusative
case how did I know that if I knew my definite articles it would be obvious we've got to know our definite articles
then right that's just the next thing we got to do um so Homer teaches the man
what about the one underneath that now watch what happens to
Homer hu look it switched its ending from a nominative to a genitive and what is the
hall going with it the hall is a nominative case as well so it can't be accompanying the hu because that's
genitive would have to be two so what is the hall accompanying it's accompanying
adelos the brother hu of Homer do you
remember I want you to translate genitives of somebody it's possession of somebody so the subject is adelos
brother H is in the genitive case of Homer the brother of Homer what does the
brother of Homer do by their way he educates who's he educate ton anthron
nice accusative case there you see the accusative ton anthrop Pawn with that on ending on the end of it good it's an
accusative case it's the object of the verb all right look that's all you need
to be knowing now what am I doing to you that you don't realize it I'm cramming I'm super or hyper exposing you to the
Greek you're you're being forced to follow and I know there's 80% of you out there are who started from Ground Zero
are now saying oh I'm I'm just beginning I can kind of all the words I kind of
follow the letters here all put together right we're running and you're running
with me that's all we're doing give me the next one another two sentences here
look at this hopos now wait a minute where is the
nominative where's the nominative case it's h anthropos you mean the subject is
at the end of the sentence yes don't let your English mind try to work its itself
out because we don't put subjects at the end we do subject verb direct object that's
how we do English right Greek Greek doesn't care about word
order word order is for barbarians word order is for barbarians you know what the Greeks can do they can
take 45 words and throw them up in the air you tell me what that
means well there's no order to yeah there doesn't need to be an order the ending of the words will tell
you what they're doing in the sentence so the subject here is at the end of the sentence H anthropos the the person the
person does what P teaches ton what is homeon it's an accusative so
it's the thing it's the thing person or place that's being taught it's being acted upon by the verb the person
teaches Homer what does the bottom line say homos anthropus
by way where's your subject homos it's got that o nominative ending where's
your direct object tus anop that's what we're going to be acting on is the men
notice they're in the plural now plural we've got singular and plural nouns dog
or dogs singular and plural and so how
would you translate that sentence Homer teaches the people Homer teaches the
people okay now you can go back over these examples and if you do just this
last 10 minutes of what we've been working on if you do what I want you to do is I want your eyes to track the text
I want your eyes to be able to read it tone Hemet on even if you don't understand it because really what's
going on with you you're just learning the alphabet you're just at that stage
where you're learning Alpha Beta Gamma Delta that's it right and that's what we're trying to
do we're trying to reset your mind with the Greek letters look at how beautiful
these things are if I didn't tell you before these are superior to English the English alphabet the Latin alphabet um
that's because I was der elected my duty look at the musicality of this language
look at that P what does that P make you want to do it on the front of P makes me I don't know does something
inside of me with the curves look at the curves on that look at how the top just
kind of coalesces right it kind of just becomes part of the two it's like a bridge P
it's gorgeous I kind of like the Omega too the Omega look at the Omega on anthropus excuse me on anthropos on the
end of the first line look at that Omega do you see how curvaceous that
Omega is that's musical baby that's musical right there oh God
yeah love it okay let's stop let's stop with that um give me another one um look
now we're going to get a little more complicated with this first sentence I just want to illustrate one thing look at that third word bio finally we get a
dative case we've had nominative as a subject genitive as possession or of I
want you to translate it of something of Homer then we've had the accusative
that's the fourth one and it's always a direct object the the one we're leaving out is the dative the dative and what do
you do with the dative it's the indirect object well what does that mean mayard
um let me tell you what it means you're going to translate it as to for or with you're going to try it every time you
know what this sentence says with two for or with Homer teaches his brother
the art with books you hear that with
books what is the dative it's a dative of instrument or means it's a dative of
something that gives you the capacity to do something do you need to remember that
when you're translating yeah you do but what do you really need to know what's the cheat just translate those datives
as two for or with when you're starting out like this two four with a dative is
something beautiful dative is something beautiful and it's got this Yoda in it
Homer teaches the his brother the skill
by means of books with books good that's a double accusative on the end ton
adelon and t double accusative now we sound like nerds right now we sound like
nerds what do you need to take home nominative subject genitive possession
dative to for or with accusative direct object of the ver verb it's what the
verb's acting on gorgeous give me the next one I'm just going to fly because I'm taking it way too much of these
professionals time and I respect you guys too much this chart you must memorize from unit one you must memorize
these endings notice on the left denominative genitive dative and
accusative right I want you to memorize people are always telling me um I can't get all these things right in my head I
can't get all the these forms right in my head then stop if it's not working then stop something's wrong abandon that
approach right um don't try to get these things straight build the
muscle a ace a a i on Ice o what are
those plurals I own ice o what are those plurals in the feminine first declen in
Greek I own ice o I have that so programmed in my head and reinforced
from the last 35 years that I will wake up still chanting paradigms I own ice o do
you know why people make fun of those Brits for their schooling their their
young boys and girls in their classes chanting off the the Greek
endings you know what they were doing they recognized they were building
Machines of classical civilization so what you're doing you're doing it with a language you're doing it
with a language isn't that fantastic I am going to capacitate you do you know
what my job is is to capacitate you I'm gonna take your brain and I'm going to
capacitate it in and out get that Shar memorized piece people
next one trust me trust me these things will help sit on the toilet if you have
to I own ice us right well let's go to the second e clenon here's a chart you
got to memorize for the second e clenon ignore that vocative at the bottom right
of that first com ignore that I just want you to see the nominative genitive dative and accusative logos logu right
what are the endings o oi on what are they in the plural oi on
o o on o what were they Fe in the feminine I on I us what are they the
mascul oi on o oi on
o make it native make it native how do you do that you listen to Cicero come
here Cicero pull up your Toga what did ciso tell us that nobody
ever listens to
right what did you say there in your Latin cisero um repetition is the mother of
learning repetition repetition repetition these are reps what do you
think when you go to the gym what do you think do you stand there and you're like oh I'm not I can't do this I can't look
it's heavy I can't lift it up well guess what you're going to start rep
and eventually that thing's not going to be heavy you are going to be using your
muscle it's the same thing with the Greek these are the Reps that you have to do right now if I've got 30 students
in front of me in seminary and I'm forcing them to do reps and yes there is something sadistic about it there is but
um there's a point where the student reaches an internalizing of these um endings that
it it's so satisfactory so satisfactory let's finish up last one what do we have
here finally your definite article people H and to look at look at the
masculine definite articles ha to toy ton don't those look like the endings that we're just seeing Oh they do what
look at the plurals Hoy tone to to all right they look a lot like the
declensional endings so it's not too far of a jump look at the feminine hey taste
Tayan High tone T TOS High tone T toas High tone T TOS right what about the
neuter notice that the new neuter nominative and accusative are the same you mean I don't know in a sentence
whether the neuter is the subject or the object no you have to figure it out you
have to figure it out now how are you don't not with your brain don't worry but just by the way all of those words
that have been thrown up into the air just by the way way it Glides around you'll see it because what you have to
learn with Greek that you don't have to learn with English is universal interaction I'm going to tell you that
now and it's something that I teach to all of my students through the Greek without them even knowing it you're
gonna have to throw up a bunch of Concepts into the air and you're GNA have to be able to see their connections
GRE mother GRE is all about teaching you connections
go ahead and take it down should we um for those of you who
are frustrated for those of you who are in a position of being
overwhelmed um guess what we all are we all are and if you're not you're not an
ancient Greek um what we're doing is we're coming from a step down to a much more
demand ing art the Greek language everybody thinks languages are created
equal ancient Greek is not English oh it's not Chinese either
Chinese has about 100 125,000 unique words again that's tiny compared to the
Greek now you're gonna have to stand up and expand you're going to have to meet
the mark and how are you going to do that you're going to remember Mize those
last three charts that I gave you you're going to do exercises what I want you to do for next week is I want you to work
on any of those sentences that you have in the exercises of unit one and then I
want you to push ahead and I want you to read unit two
we're going to start reading about verbs next week at am andu I will bring up
half a dozen sentences and I will read through them with you and you can check
yourself if you try them this week you can check yourself only the ones that are in the
exercises the exercises don't look at the drills for now look at the exercises
we're going to be exercising that's our circuit that we run okay now um I want
to tell you before we end today I want to tell you I have to set you up to
receive this kind of advaned knowledge when you're on that course if
you can't do sit-ups and push-ups you're never going to get to that point where you can uh climb scale that giant
obstacle fearlessly right that's where we have to get you and that's what I'm working on for you so please people
please until the next time we meet those of you who are actively pursuing the
Greek please try some exercise es and read unit
two we are not going to accept any money
we are still not monetized please do not listen to
strangers who try to lure you into intellectual back alleys where they can
take advantage of you you are the intellectual Marines of the
Renaissance thank you for coming tonight hail
Satan cut new singer Athena
lover dawnbringer root cutter new singer Athena
lover d bringer root cutter new singer a of
lover the devil rides out the Irish witch I'm with the Dragon
Lady don't I bring Roots I cut I am being media's love
[Music]